# Performance VS Security Trade-Off of Nested Encryption and its Implementation

## Problem Statement

To Analyse whether the security offered by nested encryption is worth the additional overhead.

## Objective

To compare the time needed by nested encryption and their individual counterparts to encrypt text as well as the average time needed by a brute force algorithm to decrypt the texts generated by them.

## Motivation

The recent rise of security attacks has led many people to believe that single level encryption algorithms are not enough and that nested encryption is the path to a more secure future. While nesting encryption does provide a greater security, is it that much greater than a single level encryption, and more importantly is it worth the extra overhead? We try to find answers to these questions in our following research.

## Approach

Randomly choosing few encryption algorithms from a pool of algorithms to encrypt data and checking the performance metrics of the nested and the individual counterparts.
Our implementation will include two stages, the first stage uses 2 encryption algorithms from a pool of 5 to 6 algorithms on a data provided by the user, and give the encrypted data along with the algorithms used during the encryption and any necessary keys. The second stage involves decrypting the data using the algorithms used during encryption over the 2 layers of encryption.

## Expected Result

The expected result is that overhead added will not justify the increase in security of the algorithm.

## Future Work

Future work would involve using more than 2 layers of encryption.
